---
draft: false
title: minFraud Release Notes - 2022 Archive
type: release-note
outputs: ['html', 'rss']
---

{{< release-note date="2022-10-11" title="MaxMind Sandbox has Launched" >}}
We've launched a new Sandbox Environment for technical validation and testing of
your integration with our minFraud and GeoIP web services. The Sandbox
environment is available for all paying MaxMind customers.

[Learn more about the Sandbox environment on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/account-and-purchasing#sandbox-environment)

[You can also read more about testing minFraud web services on the Sandbox.](/minfraud/sandbox-environment)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2022-09-26" title="Changes to Registered Country data" >}}
We have made some changes to how we determine the registered country associated
with an IP address. We estimate that this change will affect around 1% of IP
addresses with a registered country value. The following databases and web
services will be affected:

- GeoIP Country database
- GeoIP City database
- GeoIP Enterprise database
- GeoLite Country database
- GeoLite City database
- GeoIP Country web service
- GeoIP City Plus web service
- GeoIP Insights web service
- GeoLite Country web service
- GeoLite City web service
- minFraud Insights web service
- minFraud Factors web service

In some cases where we are no longer confident in the registered country for an
IP, it will be removed. In other cases, the value may be changed.

[You can learn more about the `/registered_country` output in the API schema for GeoIP web services.](/geoip/docs/web-services/responses#schema--response--registered-country)

[You can learn more about the difference between registered country and the IP geolocation on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/country-level-and-city-level-geolocation-maxmind)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2022-09-14" title="Change to Time Zone Name for Ukraine" >}}
The time zone name for Kyiv, Ukraine, which covers most of the country, has been
updated.

Previously, the time zone was named `Europe/Kiev`. It has been updated to be
named `Europe/Kyiv` following updated naming conventions from version 2022b of
the IANA time zone database.

The following products and services will see the updated time zone name:

- GeoIP City database
- GeoIP Enterprise database
- GeoIP City Plus web service
- GeoIP Insights web service
- minFraud Insights
- minFraud Factors
- GeoLite City database
- GeoLite City web service {{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2022-09-12" title="Geolocation Bug Fix Complete" >}} We
have completed work to fix a geolocation bug affecting some IPv6 addresses. All
databases and web services should now have the updated data.

See the release note [below](#geolocation-coordinate-bug-fix) for more
information about this bug.

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2022-09-07" title="Geolocation Coordinate Bug Fix" >}} We
are aware of a bug in which databases and web services have been returning
[geolocation location coordinates](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/maxmind-ip-geolocation-data#geolocation-area)
of 0,0 for IPv6 addresses which are geolocated only down to the country-level.

The following databases and web services are affected:

- GeoIP City database
- GeoIP Enterprise database
- GeoIP Legacy City web service
- GeoIP Legacy Omni/Insights web service
- GeoIP City Plus web service
- GeoIP Insights web service
- minFraud Insights web service
- minFraud Factors web service

We have a fix, and it will be released later today.

The updated GeoIP City database is now available for download.

Web service users will see the corrected data as soon as the fix has been
implemented.

We apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused.

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2022-05-31" title="Data changes to minFraud Legacy web services" >}}

In line with the
[announcement on our blog from 2020](https://blog.maxmind.com/2020/06/data-changes-to-geoip-legacy-and-minfraud-legacy-web-services-in-may-2022/),
there will be several changes to the data in our GeoIP Legacy web services
beginning today. The following web services are affected:

- minFraud Legacy Standard or Premium

The following data changes have been made:

1. **Region codes:** The legacy web services historically returned region codes
   in the FIPS 10-4 standard (for all countries except for the US and Canada).
   Now, region codes worldwide will be returned in the ISO 3166-2 standard.
1. **Area codes:** Area code fields will now return blank.
1. **Country/Region/City names:** Country, region, and city names will now come
   from [GeoNames](https://www.geonames.org/).
1. **IPv6:** The minFraud Legacy services will now provide GeoIP Location Check
   outputs for IPv6 addresses.

For more information, read the
[full announcement on our blog from 2020](https://blog.maxmind.com/2020/06/data-changes-to-geoip-legacy-and-minfraud-legacy-web-services-in-may-2022/).

Please note that
[associated changes to the GeoIP Legacy web services are also being made](/geoip/release-notes/2022/#data-changes-to-geoip-legacy-web-services).

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2022-03-01" title="Expanded filtering options in the account portal for minFraud transactions" >}}
The transaction review screen in your MaxMind account portal now has expanded
options to filter your transactions. You may now filter transactions by:

- **Account user ID:** the user ID of the end-user who initiated the transaction
- **Shop ID:** used to identify the storefront or merchant associated with the
  transaction
- **Credit card issuer ID:** the issuer ID number (IIN), sometimes called a bank
  ID number (BIN) of the card used in the transaction
- **Custom rule ID:** the ID for the custom rule that was triggered for the
  transaction

[You can learn more about how to filter and search transactions using your MaxMind account portal on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/search-the-log-of-your-minfraud-transactions)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2022-01-31" title="minFraud services now handle 8 digit IINs" >}}
We have updated the minFraud service to handle 8 digit credit card issuer ID
numbers (IINs). These are non-breaking changes.

- The `credit_card/issuer_id_number` input can now receive 6 or 8 digits.
- The `credit_card/last_4_digits` input has been renamed
  `credit_card/last_digits`, and receives 2 or 4 of the last digits of the
  credit card.
  - The `credit_card/last_4_digits` input will continue to work as an alias for
    the new `credit_card/last_digits` input.
- In some cases with longer IINs we will truncate the `credit_card/last_digits`
  input so that we process only the data required for risk scoring. If we
  truncate the last digits, the minFraud service will return a warning message.
- If you send 8 digits for the `credit_card/issuer_id_number`, but we do not
  recognize an 8 digit IIN, we will truncate the input to 6 digits. If we
  truncate the IIN, the minFraud service will return a warning message.

Learn more about how to pass the correct number of digits for credit card inputs
in our developer portal:

- [`credit_card/issuer_id_number`](/minfraud/api-documentation/requests#schema--request--credit-card__issuer_id_number)
- [`credit_card/last_digits`](/minfraud/api-documentation/requests#schema--request--credit-card__last_digits)

You can read more about these changes in
[the announcement on our blog](https://blog.maxmind.com/2022/01/minfraud-now-supports-8-digit-iins/).

If you would like to learn more about how to properly handle credit card
numbers, you can read more at
[pcisecuritystandards.org](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/).

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2022-01-14" title="minFraud alerts webhook now supports signed requests" >}}
[minFraud alerts](/minfraud/alerts) now support signed requests for webhook
delivery. You can now set a secret, which can be used to verify the authenticity
of a minFraud alert delivered via webhook. See our
[minFraud Alert documentation](/minfraud/alerts#signed-requests) for
instructions. {{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2022-01-10" title="minFraud subscores are now minFraud risk factor scores" >}}
We have renamed minFraud subscores to be "risk factor scores" to make it clearer
that the scores returned in our minFraud Factors web service are actionable risk
scores in their own right, similar to the IP risk score.
[You can learn more about all of minFraud's risk scores on our knowledge base.](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/minfraud-risk-scores-maxmind)

Nothing has changed about how to use our web services, and no changes are
required to your current integration. Specifically, the JSON response for
minFraud Factors queries will continue to return risk factor scores in the
`subscores` object.
[Learn more about the subscores object.](/minfraud/api-documentation/responses#schema--response--subscores)

{{</ release-note >}}
