---
draft: false
title: minFraud Release Notes - 2023 Archive
type: release-note
outputs: ['html', 'rss']
---

{{< release-note date="2023-12-11" title="Session age input can be used as a parameter for custom rules" >}}

You can now use the `/device/session_age` input in minFraud custom rules.
Session age can be used to detect patterns of device usage across multiple
sessions to help determine risk. For example, short sessions may be a higher
indicator of risk.

You can select the session age input as a parameter in custom rules by selecting
minFraud inputs > Session age when defining a new condition for a custom rule.

- [Learn more about setting custom rule conditions on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408362750875#h_01HBNQ01QST1MPM481ZW520R7J)
- [Learn more about session inputs on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/5444495353883-Device-Inputs#h_01G0YJ77MFVS4XW63W9G2Y1Y65)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-12-04" title="ISP output can be used as a parameter for custom rules" >}}

You can now use the `/ip_address/traits/isp` output in minFraud custom rules,
with the following operators: matches, does not match, contains, does not
contain.

Filtering transactions by ISP can be especially helpful if you notice certain
ISPs are more likely to be associated with fraudulent behavior.

You can select the ISP output as a parameter in custom rules by selecting
minFraud outputs > ISP when defining a new condition for a custom rule.

- [Learn more about setting custom rule conditions on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408362750875#h_01HBNQ01QST1MPM481ZW520R7J)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-11-29" title="Updated static IP scoring for IPv6 addresses" >}}

We are releasing a bug fix to our static IP scoring system today.

Previously we were returning higher static IP scores for cellular IPv6 addresses
when the networks were actually more dynamic.

minFraud Insights and Factors customers will see the static IP score for
cellular IPv6 addresses reduce. This should also result in improved risk scoring
for these networks for all minFraud customers.

[Learn more about static IP scores in minFraud on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408430082971-IP-Trait-Risk-Data#h_01FN6V82S7EZNGE45GCRE1JERV)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-11-16" title="Free email output can be used as a parameter for custom rules" >}}

You can now use the `/email/is_free` output in minFraud custom rules. This
output is available for transactions submitted through minFraud Insights and
minFraud Factors when you pass the `/email/address` input as plaintext, or when
you pass an MD5 hash of the `/email/address` and the plaintext `/email/domain`
input.

Use of free email providers (e.g. Gmail, Yahoo, Outlook, etc.) by consumers is
the norm, so filtering transactions on this data point is often useful only in
business-to-business contexts where you expect transactions to be conducted
using a business email domain.

You can select the free email output as a parameter in custom rules by selecting
minFraud outputs > Is free email when defining a new condition for a custom
rule.

- [Learn more about setting custom rule conditions on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408362750875#h_01HBNQ01QST1MPM481ZW520R7J)
- [Learn more about free email detection on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408562891803-Email-Risk-Data#h_01FN6V5QYMX2DYRB4YSFM93F8D)
- [Learn more about passing email inputs on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/5451485951387-Email-Inputs)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-11-15" title="Create stored lists of email addresses to use in minFraud custom rules" >}}

You can now add up to 2000 emails to a stored list and use it within minFraud
custom rules to automatically apply a disposition to all matching transactions.
Previously, you would have to create a custom rule for each separate email
address.

[Learn more about stored lists on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/20075901236891-Use-Stored-Lists-in-Custom-Rules)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-09-29" title="Improvements to IP risk score" >}}

We have made some improvements to the IP risk score, and minFraud customers may
see an average increase of 1.5% in their risk scores beginning Monday,
October 2. These changes to risk scoring should improve the accuracy of risk
scoring. This change will apply to the following data:

- [Overall risk score](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408382414235-Overall-Risk-Score)
  (available in all current and Legacy minFraud services)
- [IP risk score](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/minfraud-ip-risk-score)
  (available in minFraud Score, Insights, and Factors)
- [Proxy score](/minfraud/proxy-detection) (available in our Legacy Proxy
  detection web service)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-09-26" title="Group and join up to 20 conditions in minFraud custom rules" >}}

When using minFraud's custom rules, you can now group and join up to 20
conditions. The previous limit was 4 conditions.

[Learn more about custom rules on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408826227227)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-08-30" title="More Virtual Payment Cards Flagged in minFraud" >}}

Effective September 1, 2023 we will be flagging more virtual payment cards from
select digital banks in minFraud. In transactions where the IIN is submitted,
the minFraud services will be able to accurately tag more payment cards as
virtual. Virtual cards do not have a physical card associated with the card
number. Customers may use virtual cards for added security, though they are also
popular with resellers who use them to attempt to bypass order limits.

To benefit from increased virtual payment card detection, you must pass the IIN
or BIN (`credit_card/issuer_id_number`) of the payment card:

- [Learn more about the IIN input on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/5450338695963-Credit-Card-and-Payments-Inputs#h_01G0YWJK0M3R4Y4N0AD2S6X9G4)
- [See the documentation for this input in the API schema on our Developer Portal.](/minfraud/api-documentation/requests#schema--request--credit-card__issuer_id_number)

Users of the minFraud Insights and Factors services will be able to see whether
a submitted payment card is virtual using the `credit_card/is_virtual` output:

- [Learn more about prepaid and virtual card detection on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408734452123-Credit-Card-Risk-Data#h_01FN6TXRB1E35Q7Z7BGENRV7MC)
- [See the documentation for this output in the API schema on our Developer Portal.](/minfraud/api-documentation/responses#schema--response--credit-card__is_virtual)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-08-17" title="API policies - temporary enforcement on October 17, 2023" >}}

To improve our server infrastructure and allow for better performance and
efficiency, MaxMind will begin enforcing our policies around our API and
database download requests in March 2024. To help customers get ready for this
change, we will have a planned, temporary enforcement of these policies on
October 17, 2023.

**What are the policies?**

- MaxMind will only accept API and database download requests sent with the more
  secure HTTPS protocol.
- MaxMind will only accept API and database download requests that are sent to
  the appropriate hostname as documented in the integration instructions on our
  Developer Portal (see direct links below).

**What do I need to do?** To ensure that your MaxMind service is not
interrupted, please ensure ensure that you are using the correct hostname for
your API requests, and that you are using HTTPS, prior to October 17, 2023. You
can view the appropriate URIs for minFraud services on our Developer Portal
using the links below:

- [minFraud Score, Insights, and Factors web services](/minfraud/api-documentation/requests#service-endpoints)
- [minFraud Device Tracking](/minfraud/track-devices/#implementation)
- [minFraud Transaction Reporting](/minfraud/report-a-transaction#api-documentation)
- [Legacy minFraud web services](/minfraud/minfraud-legacy#http-api)
- [Legacy Proxy Detection web service](/minfraud/proxy-detection#http-based-api)

**Please note:** This enforcement will also effect GeoIP API requests. If you
are also a GeoIP user, see
[our GeoIP release note on this issue](/geoip/release-notes/2023#api-policies---temporary-enforcement-on-october-17-2023).

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-07-20" title="Expanded filtering options in minFraud Interactive" >}}

Within minFraud Interactive, the interface provided in your account portal for
searching, filtering, reviewing, and submitting minFraud transactions, you can
now click to filter on more transaction data.

From the log of your minFraud transactions you can click on a number of
transaction inputs and immediately get a filtered log of your transactions with
matching data. For example, if you have a transaction with a billing phone
number of +1 123 555 7698, you could click on that transaction's billing phone
number and immediately see a list of all transactions submitted with the same
billing phone number over the past four months.

You can click to filter on the following transaction inputs (newly filterable
inputs with this release are marked with an asterisk):

- Device ID
- IP address
- Credit card - Issuer Identification Number (IIN)\*
- Credit card - IIN + Last 4 digits\*
- Email address or domain
- Shipping address\*
- Billing phone number\*

[You can learn more about minFraud Interactive's log of your transactions on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408754902171-View-the-Log-of-my-minFraud-Transactions)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-07-17" title="Data retention increased for minFraud Interactive" >}}

Effective immediately, we will begin to retain data in minFraud Interactive for
up to 5 months. Although this change is already in place, you will not notice
the increased retention period until early August.

Previously, we retained data in minFraud Interactive for up to 4 months.

minFraud Interactive is the interface for searching, filtering, and viewing
minFraud transactions through your account portal.
[Learn more about minFraud Interactive on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/minfraud-web-services#submit-and-review-transactions)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-06-12" title="Correction regarding London boroughs in our geolocation data" >}}

On June 6,
[we announced that more networks would be mapped to London boroughs](#more-networks-mapped-to-london-boroughs)
beginning on Friday, June 9.

This change has been delayed. It should be present in our products and services
beginning on Friday, June 16.

In addition, for networks in the greater London area we will be returning the
name of the town for city-level name data instead of the borough. The borough
will be populated in the second level subdivision.

For example, a network that maps to the Walthamstow town will return Walthamstow
for the city_name, and Walthamstow Forest for the second level subdivision.

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-06-06" title="More networks mapped to London boroughs" >}}

When a network geolocates to London, we will often return the borough for the
city, rather than returning London. Beginning this Friday, June 9, we will be
mapping more networks to London boroughs.

This change will apply to all products and services with city-level geolocation
data:

- GeoIP City database
- GeoIP City Plus web service
- GeoIP Insights web service
- GeoIP Enterprise database
- minFraud Insights web service
- minFraud Factors web service
- GeoLite City web service
- GeoLite City database

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-05-30" title="minFraud Transactions searchable by email domain" >}}

We have updated the minFraud Transactions interface in the account portal to
allow users to search for and filter transactions by email domain.

[Learn how to search and filter minFraud Transactions through the account portal on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408755037851-Search-the-Log-of-my-minFraud-Transactions)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-05-15" title="minFraud Alerts will be restored" >}}

We are aware of an issue in which some minFraud Alerts were not being sent or
were delayed.

We expect to restore full functionality to minFraud Alerts by the end of the
day.

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-03-29" title="Improvements to minFraud Interactive" >}}

We have made a number of improvements to the user interface for minFraud
Interactive, the interface used to view minFraud transactions through your
account portal.

The functionality of the interface is not changed, but some of the features now
appear in a different place on the screen, and the transaction information is
now displayed differently.

[Learn how to navigate the new interface on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408754902171-View-the-Log-of-my-minFraud-Transactions)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-03-21" title="Velocity Checking on User ID" >}}

We have enabled velocity tracking on the `account/user_id` input for all
minFraud customers.

If you send a user ID associated with your transactions, minFraud will now
factor the velocity of the user's transactions into the risk score.

The `account/user_id` input allows you to pass a unique identifier for each of
your users so that the minFraud service can group transactions by user in order
to identify fraud signals attached to specific users.

[Learn more about the `account/user_id` input on our Developer Portal.](/minfraud/api-documentation/requests#schema--request--account__user_id)

[Learn more about velocity tracking on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408261402651-Velocity-Checks)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2023-03-16" title="New License Key Format" >}}

We have updated the format of our license keys. New license keys will be longer,
with a six character prefix.

The new license keys can be used in all current versions of our Client APIs and
in version 3.1.1 and higher of
[our GeoIP Update program](/geoip/updating-databases).

No action is required for minFraud users. Existing license keys will still be
valid and will continue to function normally.

New license keys will have the following changes:

- The character set is changing from `[a-zA-Z0-9]` to `[a-zA-Z0-9_]`.
- The length of the license key will now be 40 characters.
- License keys will have a `_mmk` suffix.

Please note that the length of license keys may be increased in the future.

{{</ release-note >}}
