---
draft: false
title: minFraud Release Notes - 2024 Archive
type: release-note
outputs: ['html', 'rss']
---

{{< release-note date="2024-12-03" title="Several Spectrum Business networks reclassified" >}}

In data released today, Tuesday, December 3, 2024, we are updating a large
number of Spectrum Business networks to be classified as Spectrum residential
networks. For these networks, the ISP name will change from `Spectrum Business`
to `Spectrum`. This change has been reviewed, and is accurate.

This change will be reflected in the following products and services:

- minFraud Factors web service
- minFraud Insights web service
- GeoIP Enterprise database
- GeoIP ISP database
- GeoIP Insights web service
- GeoIP City Plus web service

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-11-12" title="Updates to Risk Score Reasons (beta)" >}}

On November 13, 2024, we will release a number of updates to
[risk score reasons](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/risk-score-reasons-minfraud):

- All reasons will be updated to say `[reason] raised the overall risk score` or
  `[reason] lowered the overall risk score` to more clearly indicate the effect
  of a reason.
- The `EMAIL_ADDRESS_NEW` reason code will be removed and replaced with three
  distinct and more specific codes and reasons:
  - `EMAIL_FIRST_SEEN`
  - `EMAIL_TENURE`
  - `EMAIL_TENURE_NO_ACTIVITY`
- The `CUSTOMER_ID` reason code will be renamed to `CUSTOMER_ID_ACTIVITY` to
  better fit its reason description.

Please [email product@maxmind.com](mailto:product@maxmind.com) if you have any
questions.

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-10-22" title="Deprecation of risk factor scores/subscores" >}}

On Monday, November 4, 2024, we will be deprecating the risk factor scores/
subscores data in the minFraud Factors service. Risk factor scores/subscores
will be removed from the API response in March, 2025.

Risk factor scores have been replaced by risk score reasons, to help you more
deeply understand your risk patterns and make more informed decisions. Please
review the risk score reasons for specific and understandable insights into why
a risk score is high or low.
[Learn more about risk score reasons on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/risk-score-reasons-minfraud)

[Submit a support ticket request](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base) if
you have questions or concerns.

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-10-09" title="Upcoming improvements to user count data" >}}

On Tuesday, October 22, 2024, we will release an improvement to our user count
data to better detect IPs with multiple end users.

Many IP addresses with multiple end users that previously had a user count value
of 0 or 1 will now have a value of 2.

If you have applications of the data that rely on user count values with a
threshold of 0, 1, or 2, you may want to increase the thresholds by 1. For
example, if you currently consider user count values of greater than 1 to be
high volume, you may wish to consider user count values of greater than 2 to be
high volume when this update goes live.

The following services will be impacted:

- minFraud Insights web service
- minFraud Factors web service

[Learn more about user count data on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/ip-trait-risk-data-minfraud#user-counts)

[Submit a support ticket request](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base) if
you have questions or concerns.

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-09-12" title="Increase in slightly elevated IP risk and proxy scores and remediation" >}}
On September 10, 2024 we pushed a model update to IP risk scoring that increased
a large volume of IP risk scores (also referred to as proxy score for legacy
services) at the lower end of the scale (between 0.01 and 1).

While these IP risk scores remained low (less than 1), this shifted the score
distribution and may have impacted your systems depending on your score
thresholds.

On September 12, 2024, we implemented an update that will decrease most of these
low IP risk scores again. To remediate this sort of issue in the future, we will
be increasing the sensitivity of our monitoring for scores on the lower end of
the distribution before releasing model updates. {{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-08-27" title="Introducing Risk Score Reasons beta for minFraud Factors customers" >}}
Today, we have released a new beta feature that will help minFraud Factors
customers more deeply understand risk patterns and make more informed decisions.

Risk score reasons are a set of data that provide users with specific and
understandable reasons for why a risk score is high or low. This data is
exclusive to the minFraud Factors service.

[Watch this 2-minute video to learn more.](https://www.loom.com/share/ab0d7c6335fa48ef8302120016b37eb0?sid=3b226e98-f154-4e47-a885-e47b8e92c768)

For full details, including how to access and test this feature,
[check out the Risk Score Reasons knowledge base article.](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/risk-score-reasons-minfraud)

To provide feedback on Risk Score Reasons, please email
[customersuccess@maxmind.com](mailto:customersuccess@maxmind.com) to schedule a
feedback session.

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-08-15" title="MaxMind minFraud alert emails now include instant feedback links" >}}

MaxMind minFraud alert emails now include links that allow you to provide
instant feedback on each request. Providing transaction feedback helps improve
the risk scoring for your account.

You can mark a request as risky and we will raise the risk for similar requests.

Or, you can mark a request as not risky and we will lower the risk for similar
requests.

[Here is an example of the links](https://get.maxmind.com/hubfs/Marketing/Misc/minfraud-alerts-feedback-links.png)
in the minFraud alerts email body.

Please continue to
[report chargebacks and fraud on your account portal or via API.](https://dev.maxmind.com/minfraud/report-a-transaction/)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-08-08" title="Additional filtering options now available for minFraud transactions" >}}
The transactions screen in your MaxMind account portal now has expanded
filtering options, giving you added ability to discover trends in your
transactions and adjust risk strategies.

You can now filter transactions by:

- **Risk score range**: the likelihood that a transaction is fraudulent, scored
  between a minimum of 0.01 and a maximum of 99
- **IP risk score range**: the riskiness of an IP address, scored between a
  minimum of 0.01 and a maximum of 99
- **ISP**: the internet service provider of the end-user who initiated the
  transaction
- **IP Country**: the country for the IP address associated with the transaction

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-07-09" title="New phone outputs released for minFraud® Insights and minFraud Factors" >}}

We have released additional outputs for our
[minFraud Insights and minFraud Factors](https://www.maxmind.com/en/solutions/fraud-prevention/overview)
web services. Insights and Factors customers that pass phone numbers can now
make use of the following additional outputs:

- `/shipping_phone/country` – A two-character ISO 3166-1 country code for the
  country associated with the shipping phone number.

- `/shipping_phone/is_voip` – This is true if the shipping phone number is a
  Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) number allocated by a regulator. It is
  false if the shipping phone number is not a VoIP number allocated by a
  regulator. The key is only present when a valid shipping phone number has been
  provided and we have data for it.

- `/shipping_phone/network_operator` – The name of the original network operator
  associated with the shipping phone number. This field does not reflect phone
  numbers that have been ported from the original operator to another, nor does
  it identify mobile virtual network operators.

- `/shipping_phone/number_type` – Indicates whether the phone number is mobile
  or fixed.

- `/billing_phone/country` – A two-character ISO 3166-1 country code for the
  country associated with the billing phone number.

- `/billing_phone/is_voip` – This is true if the billing phone number is a Voice
  over Internet Protocol (VoIP) number allocated by a regulator. It is false if
  the billing phone number is not a VoIP number allocated by a regulator. The
  key is only present when a valid billing phone number has been provided and we
  have data for it.

- `/billing_phone/network_operator` – The name of the original network operator
  associated with the billing phone number. This field does not reflect phone
  numbers that have been ported from the original operator to another, nor does
  it identify mobile virtual network operators.

- `/billing_phone/number_type` – Indicates whether the phone number is mobile or
  fixed.

These values are particularly helpful to identify mismatches between data
points, such as a mismatch between the billing country as indicated by the IP
address and the country as indicated by the billing phone number. Another strong
signal for fraud is a phone carrier that does not operate in the country
indicated by the IP address.

Our [client APIs](/minfraud/evaluate-a-transaction#links-to-maxmind-client-apis)
have been updated to support these outputs so you may need to refresh yours if you
are not interfacing directly with our REST API.

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-04-08" title="Email first seen can be used as a parameter for custom rules" >}}

minFraud Insights and Factors customers can now use the
[`/email/first_seen` output](https://dev.maxmind.com/minfraud/api-documentation/responses/#schema--response--email)
in minFraud custom rules.

The minFraud service retains a record of when an email address or email domain
was first seen on the minFraud Network. An email address that has been
conducting transactions for a long time across the minFraud Network may be more
trustworthy than a new email address created within the last 30 days.

You can select the email first seen output as a parameter in custom rules by
selecting minFraud outputs > Email first seen when defining a new condition for
a custom rule.

- [Learn more about setting custom rule conditions on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/create-a-custom-rule-minfraud-maxmind#create-custom-rule)
- [Learn more about email risk data on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/minfraud-email-risk-data)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-04-08" title="Upcoming changes to our TLS certificates may impact customers with unusual server configuration" >}}

Starting in May, Let's Encrypt will no longer use a cross-signed root
certificate, and the primary TLS certificate handling the `*.maxmind.com`
domains will be impacted by this change.

**Most customers will see no impact from this change.**

This change should only be of concern if the servers interacting with MaxMind
domains are running a very old or out of date operating system, or if you manage
your own local Certificate Authority store.

- [Read more about these changes on the Cloudflare blog.](https://blog.cloudflare.com/upcoming-lets-encrypt-certificate-chain-change-and-impact-for-cloudflare-customers/)
- [Get information about compatibility from Let's Encrypt.](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/certificate-compatibility/)

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-03-13" title="API policies are now permanently enforced" >}}

To improve our server infrastructure and allow for better performance and
efficiency, our API policies are now being permanently enforced as of March
13, 2024.

**What are the policies?**

- MaxMind only accepts API and database download requests sent with the more
  secure HTTPS protocol.
- MaxMind only accepts API and database download requests that are sent to the
  appropriate hostname as documented in the integration instructions on our
  Developer Portal (see direct links below).

**What do I need to do?** Ensure that you are using the correct hostname for
your API requests, and that you are using HTTPS. Failure to do so will result in
web service or database download requests failing.

You can view the appropriate URIs for minFraud services on our Developer Portal
using the links below:

- [minFraud Score, Insights, and Factors web services](/minfraud/api-documentation/requests#service-endpoints)
- [minFraud Device Tracking](/minfraud/track-devices/#implementation)
- [minFraud Transaction Reporting](/minfraud/report-a-transaction#api-documentation)
- [Legacy minFraud web services](/minfraud/minfraud-legacy#http-api)
- [Legacy Proxy Detection web service](/minfraud/proxy-detection#http-based-api)

**Please note:** This enforcement will also affect GeoIP web service and
database download requests. If you are also a GeoIP user,
[see our GeoIP release note on this issue](/geoip/release-notes/2024#api-policies-are-now-permanently-enforced).

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-01-25" title="API policies - temporary enforcement on February 7, 2024" >}}

To improve our server infrastructure and allow for better performance and
efficiency, MaxMind will begin enforcing our policies around our API and
database download requests on March 13, 2024. To help customers get ready for
this change, we will have a planned, temporary enforcement of these policies on
February 7, 2024.

**What are the policies?**

- MaxMind will only accept API and database download requests sent with the more
  secure HTTPS protocol.
- MaxMind will only accept API and database download requests that are sent to
  the appropriate hostname as documented in the integration instructions on our
  Developer Portal (see direct links below).

**What do I need to do?** To ensure that your MaxMind service is not
interrupted, please ensure that you are using the correct hostname for
your API requests, and that you are using HTTPS, prior to February 7, 2024.

If you have not made the requested changes before Wednesday, February 7, 2024,
you might experience a period where web service or database download requests
fail.

You can view the appropriate URIs for minFraud services on our Developer Portal
using the links below:

- [minFraud Score, Insights, and Factors web services](/minfraud/api-documentation/requests#service-endpoints)
- [minFraud Device Tracking](/minfraud/track-devices/#implementation)
- [minFraud Transaction Reporting](/minfraud/report-a-transaction#api-documentation)
- [Legacy minFraud web services](/minfraud/minfraud-legacy#http-api)
- [Legacy Proxy Detection web service](/minfraud/proxy-detection#http-based-api)

**Please note:** This enforcement also affects GeoIP API requests. If you are
also a GeoIP user,
[see our GeoIP release note on this issue](/geoip/release-notes/2024#api-policies---temporary-enforcement-on-february-7-2024).

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2024-01-22" title="minFraud no longer accepts event times more than one year in the past" >}}

Starting tomorrow, January 23, 2024, minFraud will no longer accept
`/event/time` inputs with values more than one year in the past. Most customers
do not need to send the `/event/time` input and will not be impacted by this
change.
[Learn more about this input and how to use it to score historical transactions on our Knowledge Base.](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/event-and-account-inputs-minfraud#storefront-identifier)

If you send the `/event/time` inputs with values more than one year in the past,
minFraud will:

- replace the event time with the current time
- score the transaction and return a score
- return an `INPUT_INVALID` warning with its response

{{</ release-note >}}
