---
draft: false
title: minFraud Release Notes
type: release-note
outputs: ['html', 'rss']
---

{{< alert info >}}
[Sign up to be notified](https://comms.maxmind.com/minfraud-rss-release-notes)
whenever a new minFraud release note is posted. {{</ alert >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-11-20" title="IP risk snapshot output added to traits object in the Insights web services">}}

We have added the [`ip_risk_snapshot`](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/docs/web-services/responses/#schema--response--traits__ip_risk_snapshot) to the traits object in our GeoIP Insights web service and our minFraud Insights and Factors web services. This field contains the risk associated with the IP address. The value ranges from 0.01 to 99. A higher score indicates a higher risk.

The IP risk snapshot is not a replacement for the minFraud IP risk score (`ip_address/risk`). 

The IP risk snapshot is based on an analysis of historical risk on the IP address, while the minFraud IP risk score is a responsive data field that generates an IP risk score in real time based on the transactions you send and activity from across the minFraud network. 

minFraud customers may find the IP risk snapshot output useful to determine whether an IP address is risky based on historical activity versus a current, emerging issue. A lower `traits/ip_risk_snapshot` score combined with a higher minFraud `ip_address/risk` score would mean that the IP address is becoming risky in real time based on the traffic on your and other customers' networks. A high score in both `ip_risk_snapshot` and minFraud IP risk score would mean that the IP address has been risky for a longer time.

We plan to update the client APIs soon to reflect this change. 

{{</ release-note >}}



{{< release-note date="2025-11-19" title="New anonymizer data added to web services">}}

We have added an [`anonymizer` object](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/docs/web-services/responses/#anonymizer) to our web services. This object contains the anonymizer data previously found in the `traits` object together with new outputs.

Anonymizer data in the `traits` object is being marked as deprecated. However, for backwards compatibility, anonymizer data in the `traits` object will continue to be populated and the functionality remains the same. This will not be a breaking change. 

When the client APIs for the web services are upgraded, we recommend updating your integrations to use the new `anonymizer` object, which contains data points not found in the `traits` object:

| new data | description |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| `anonymizer/confidence`                       | A score ranging from 1 to 99 that represents our percent confidence that the network is currently part of an actively used VPN service.| 
| `anonymizer/network_last_seen`                | The last day that the network was sighted in our analysis of anonymized networks. This is in the ISO 8601 date format (YYYY-MM-DD). |
|  `anonymizer/provider_name`                  | The name of the VPN provider (e.g., NordVPN, SurfShark, etc.) associated with the network. |

We plan to update the client APIs soon to reflect this change, which applies to the following web services: 

- minFraud Insights
- minFraud Factors 
- GeoIP Insights

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-11-18" title="Subdivision, city, and postal fields blanked in selected cities and countries">}}

Effective tomorrow, Wednesday, November 19, 2025, we will be blanking out the subdivision, city, and postal fields more often in the following cities and countries. This change will result in fewer resolutions in: 

- Bangkok, Thailand 
- Istanbul, Turkey 
- All cities in Argentina 
- All cities in France 
- All cities in Germany 
- All cities in Ireland 
- All cities in Poland 
- All cities in South Korea
- All cities in Switzerland
- All cities in Taiwan
- All cities in the United Kingdom
- All cities in Uruguay 

This change is to reduce false positives when the end users of a network are dispersed all over the country.

The update will be reflected in the following products and services:

- minFraud Factors web service
- minFraud Insights web service
- GeoIP City database
- GeoIP Enterprise database
- GeoIP City Plus web service
- GeoIP Insights web service

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-11-06" title="Subdivision, city, and postal fields blanked in selected large cities">}}

Effective Monday, November 10, 2025, we will be blanking out the subdivision,
city, and postal fields more often in Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Norway,
Spain, and Sweden where the end users are actually dispersed all over the
country.

This change will result in fewer resolutions to the following cities:

- Vienna, Austria
- Copenhagen, Denmark
- Athens, Greece
- Dublin, Ireland
- Oslo, Norway
- All cities in Spain
- Stockholm, Sweden

The update will be reflected in the following products and services:

- minFraud Factors web service
- minFraud Insights web service
- GeoIP City database
- GeoIP Enterprise database
- GeoIP City Plus web service
- GeoIP Insights web service

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-11-06" title="Subdivision, city, and postal fields blanked in Tokyo metro area in some cases">}}

As of Tuesday, November 4, 2025, we are blanking out the subdivision, city, and
postal fields in cases where the subdivision was previously mapped to Tokyo but
end users are dispersed throughout Japan.

This change will result in fewer resolutions to the Tokyo subdivision and will
be reflected in the following products and services:

- minFraud Factors web service
- minFraud Insights web service
- GeoIP City database
- GeoIP Enterprise database
- GeoIP City Plus web service
- GeoIP Insights web service

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-06-16" title="EMAIL_DOMAIN_CREATION_DATE risk score reason added" >}}

We have added `EMAIL_DOMAIN_CREATION_DATE` as a new
[risk score reason](https://support.maxmind.com/knowledge-base/articles/risk-score-reasons-minfraud).

The `EMAIL_DOMAIN_CREATION_DATE` risk reason will be returned as either
`EMAIL_DOMAIN_CREATION_DATE raised the overall risk score` or
`EMAIL_DOMAIN_CREATION_DATE lowered the overall risk score` to clearly indicate
the effect the reason has on the score.

Please [email product@maxmind.com](mailto:product@maxmind.com) if you have any
questions. {{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-05-05" title="Resolved - Postal code validation bug" >}}

We have
[resolved the bug](/minfraud/release-notes/2025/#postal-code-validation-bug)
that resulted in a number of incorrect and invalid values for postal codes.

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-05-01" title="Postal code validation bug" >}}

We have identified a bug with postal code validation in our database build
process.

This bug is resulting in a number of incorrect and invalid values for postal
codes. We are working on a fix.

The following products and services are impacted:

- minFraud Insights
- minFraud Factors
- minfraud Legacy
- GeoIP Insights web service
- GeoIP City Plus web service
- GeoIP City database
- GeoIP Enterprise database

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-02-24" title="Risk score reasons out of beta" >}}

Risk score reasons have been officially introduced and out of beta as of
February 19, 2025.

Available for all minFraud service tiers for individual transactions on the
Transaction Details page and also via API for the minFraud Factors service, risk
score reasons provide specific and understandable reasons for why a risk score
is high or low, helping to uncover risk patterns for individual transactions and
the overall transaction stream, both at a point in time and over time.

[Read our blog post](https://blog.maxmind.com/2025/02/how-to-enhance-your-fraud-strategy-with-minfraud-risk-score-reasons/)
to learn about the ‘why’ behind risk score reasons, and how you can use the data
they provide to enhance your fraud strategy.

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-02-10" title="No longer returning A1 country code in minFraud legacy web services" >}}

For minFraud legacy web services, we will no longer return `A1` as a country
code.

This change is due to the removal of long-deprecated fields in our GeoIP
databases.
[See our GeoIP release note for more information](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/release-notes/2025/#removal-of-deprecated-fields).

{{</ release-note >}}
