---
draft: false
title: GeoIP Release Notes - 2016 Archive
type: release-note
outputs: ['html', 'rss', 'markdown']
---

{{< release-note date="2016-11-08" title="Change to Comcast Business ISP name" >}}
We've updated any GeoIP database or service providing ISP and Organization data
to return Comcast Business rather than Comcast Business Communications. We are
doing so in order to use the trade name of the ISP and also because it is
shorter.

Please note that if you use this data point, for example, to flag a visitor if
they change ISP, you may need to adjust your implementation in order to avoid
false positive or negative flags.

The following GeoIP databases and services are affected by this change:

- GeoIP2 ISP database
- GeoIP2 Enterprise database (Update will apply to November 15th release)
- GeoIP Legacy ISP and Organization databases
- GeoIP2 City Plus and Legacy City Web Service
- GeoIP2 and Legacy Insights Web Service

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2016-09-15" title="Improved GeoIP accuracy outside the US" >}}
The GeoIP City databases now provide significantly improved accuracy for
countries outside the US, especially China, India, and Japan. See more
information about GeoIP accuracy on
[https://www.maxmind.com/en/geoip-accuracy-comparison](https://www.maxmind.com/en/geoip-accuracy-comparison)
{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2016-04-26" title="Accuracy radius to be added to GeoLite2 City, GeoIP2 City, and GeoIP2 City Plus" >}}
MaxMind will be adding accuracy radius to the GeoLite2 City and GeoIP2 City
databases as well as the GeoIP2 City Plus web service.

The Accuracy Radius is an indication in kilometers of geolocation accuracy for
the latitude and longitude coordinates we return for an IP address. The actual
location of the IP address is likely within the area defined by this radius and
the latitude and longitude coordinates.

As a reminder, the latitude and longitude coordinates we return for a given IP
address are near either the population or geographic center of the most granular
location data we return for that IP address (i.e., country, region/state, city,
or postal code) and should not be used to identify a particular address or
household.

For the binary databases and web service, this field will be available at
`/location/accuracy_radius`. All official
[GeoIP2 client APIs](/geoip/geolocate-an-ip/databases/#official-maxmind-client-apis)
already support this field.

**For the CSV databases, a new `accuracy_radius` column will be added to the end
of the IPv4 and IPv6 blocks files. Please test your integration to ensure
compatibility before updating.** You may test your integration by downloading
the [latest copy](/geoip/geoip2/geolite2/) of the GeoLite2 CSV database, which
already has the accuracy_radius column appended.

Target availability dates:

- GeoLite2 City – May 3, 2016
- GeoIP2 City – May 17, 2016
- GeoIP2 City Plus – May 19, 2016

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2016-04-11" title="Change in default lat/lon" >}} We are
changing the latitude and longitude for two locations in our GeoIP and GeoLite
databases. For IPs in the United States that we are unable to locate to a
particular state or city, we will return 37.751, -97.822. For IPs that resolve
to Ashburn, Virginia with zip code 20147, we will return 39.018, -77.539. We
would like to remind customers that latitude and longitude values contained in
the GeoIP databases are not precise and should not be used to identify a
particular address or household. {{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2016-02-26" title="Capitalization change for Verizon FiOS" >}}
We are updating the GeoIP ISP and Organization databases to return
`Verizon Fios` instead of `Verizon FiOS`, due to a change in how Verizon
capitalizes Fios. If you reference `Verizon FiOS` in code or a custom rule, note
that you may need to revise these references to `Verizon Fios`.
{{</ release-note >}}
