---
draft: false
title: GeoIP Release Notes
type: release-note
outputs: ['html', 'rss']
---

{{< alert info >}}
Subscribe to the [GeoIP release notes RSS feed](/geoip/release-notes/rss.xml).
{{</ alert >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-02-10" title="Removal of deprecated fields `is_anonymous_proxy` and `is_satellite_provider`" >}}

We are removing the long-deprecated fields `is_anonymous_proxy` and `is_satellite_provider` from all web services and all MMDB format databases. This will be a non-breaking change.

These columns will be set to`0` for all rows in CSV-format databases. 

The following services will be impacted:

- GeoIP Country database
- GeoIP City database
- GeoIP Enterprise database

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-02-05" title="Update—Identifying Verizon 5g Home Internet" >}}

As announced in our [previous release note](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/release-notes/2025/#identifying-verizon-5g-home-internet), we are reclassifying a portion of Verizon Wireless networks in the United States. 

In addition to reclassifying the ISP name from `Verizon Wireless` to  
`Verizon 5g Home Internet`, we will also be reclassifying the organization name for consistency. 

Starting on Friday, February 7, networks that have their ISP name set to `Verizon 5g Home Internet` will also have their organization name set to `Verizon 5g Home Internet`.

The following products and services will be affected:

- GeoIP Enterprise database
- GeoIP Insights and City Plus web services
- GeoIP ISP database
- minFraud Insights and Factors web services

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-01-27" title="Identifying Verizon 5g Home Internet" >}}

Starting on Tuesday, February 4, we will be making changes to identify more
fixed wireless networks. We are starting with Verizon Wireless networks in the
United States.

Beginning with database releases on Tuesday, February 4, about 15% of traffic
previously identified with ISP name `Verizon Wireless` will be reclassified.

These networks will have their ISP name set to `Verizon 5g Home Internet`
and they will have their `user_type` set to `residential`. Their
`connection_type` will remain set to `Cellular`.

The following products and services will be affected:

- GeoIP Enterprise database
- GeoIP Insights and City Plus web services
- GeoIP ISP database
- minFraud Insights and Factors web services

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-01-21" title="metro_code deprecation in GeoIP" >}}

The `metro_code` data in our GeoIP products and services is a no-longer-maintained code. Because Google does not use or publish these codes any longer, the `metro_code` field has now been deprecated in our GeoIP products and services.

**What should I do?**

The field will not be removed from our databases and existing values will continue to be populated, so you can continue using it if you find it valuable.

{{</ release-note >}}

{{< release-note date="2025-01-09" title="GeoNames Monthly Diff Report January 2025" >}}
[GeoNames Monthly Diff Report (January 2025)](/csv-files/GeoNames-Monthly-Diff-Report-January-2025.csv)

GeoIP2 and GeoLite2 databases incorporate
[GeoNames geographical data](https://www.geonames.org/), which is made available
under the
[Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Monthly updates to GeoNames data are incorporated into our databases as we
refresh them. Above you will find a CSV report of these changes as they apply to
English place names for the month of January as they relate to the following
fields:

- `geoname_id`
- `country_name`
- `country_code`
- `city_name`
- `subdivision_1_iso_code`
- `subdivision_2_iso_code`

Note that the values for the `old_` and `new_` columns for a given field only
differ for the field defined in the `diff_in` column.

{{</ release-note >}}