---
draft: false
title: What's New in GeoIP2
---

MaxMind's GeoIP2 Precision services and GeoIP2 databases are an evolution of our
original GeoIP web services and databases, which we now refer to as GeoIP
Legacy. This document highlights the most important changes for developers.

## Data Changes

GeoIP2 includes a variety of new data, as well as making changes to how existing
data is represented.

### Localized Data

Perhaps the biggest change is the inclusion of localized name data. The service
supports Brazilian Portuguese (`pt-BR`), English (`en`), French (`fr`), German
(`de`), Japanese (`ja`), Russian (`ru`), Simplified Chinese (`zh-CN`), and
Spanish (`es`).

Whenever possible, we provide a `geoname_id` for things like cities, countries,
and country subdivisions. The [GeoNames](https://www.geonames.org) data set
includes a huge amount of data on geographical features.

### Country, Registered Country, and Represented Country

We now distinguish between several types of country data. The `country` is the
country where the IP address is located. The `registered_country` is the country
in which the IP is registered. These two may differ in some cases.

Both `country` and `registered_country` may include the `is_in_european_union`
key to indicate that the country is in the European Union.

Finally, we also include a `represented_country` key for some records. This is
used when the IP address belongs to something like a military base. The
`represented_country` is the country that the base represents. This can be
useful for managing content licensing, among other uses.

### ISO 3166-2, FIPS 10-4, and Country Subdivisions

We now provide the ISO 3166-2 codes for country subdivisions when they are
available. The GeoIP2 databases and services **do not** include FIPS 10-4 region
codes. The GeoIP Legacy databases included ISO codes for US and Canada and FIPS
codes for all other countries.

We also provide multiple levels of country subdivision data. The subdivisions
these provide correspond to the subdivisions which have been given ISO 3166-2
codes. For example, in the United States, we only provide a single level of
subdivision data, corresponding to US states. But for the United Kingdom, we may
provide two levels. The first level is the country (England, Scotland, Wales) or
province (Northern Ireland). The second level may be a county, a London borough,
a unitary authority, council area, etc.

We provide a
[CSV file which maps FIPS 10-4 region codes to their corresponding ISO 3166-2 subdivision codes](/static/csv//fips-iso-map.csv).
Note that codes for the US and Canada are not present since we included ISO
codes for these countries in GeoIP Legacy. Also note that the CSV file may
contain outdated ISO 3166-2 subdivision codes in addition to any up-to-date
codes that may have replaced them. This file incorporates GeoNames geographical
data, which is made available under the
[Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

### Custom Country Codes

In the GeoIP Legacy databases, we included several country codes that don't
represent countries. These were `AP` (Asia/Pacific), `EU` (Europe), `A1`
(anonymous proxy), and `A2` (satellite provider).

For IP addresses where we used to use `AP`, we now return a response with no
country set at all. It will, however, contain a `continent` object, and that
continent will be Asia. The `time_zone` key under the `location` object will be
set to `Australia/Perth`. For `EU`, we return a similar document where the
continent is Europe and the `time_zone` is `Europe/Vaduz`.

For IP addresses where we used `A1` or `A2`, we now set the appropriate key in
the `traits` object. The `A1` code corresponds to the deprecated
`is_anonymous_proxy` key, while `A2` corresponds to the deprecated
`is_satellite_provider` key. New integrations are encouraged to use
`is_anonymous`, `is_anonymous_vpn`, `is_hosting_provider`, `is_public_proxy`,
`is_satellite_provider`, `is_tor_exit_node`, and `is_residential_proxy`, all
available in the GeoIP2 Precision Insights web service or the GeoIP2 Anonymous
IP database.

### User Type and Net Speed (web service only)

In the GeoIP2 web services, we have effectively merged the user type and net
speed data into the `user_type` key. The possible `user_type` values now include
`dialup`. The `cellular` net speed was already included in the list of possible
`user_type` values.

We have also changed the format of the `user_type` values so that they are in
all lower case, with words separated by underscores (\_).

### Autonomous System Number

In GeoIP Legacy, this was returned as a string like "AS1239 Linkem IR WiMax
Network". This has been split into two keys, `autonomous_system_number`, an
integer, and `autonomous_system_organization`, which is a string.

### Area Code

The GeoIP2 databases and services **do not** include area codes.

### Location Information

GeoIP2 Precision Insights includes the average income and population density for
the area in which the IP address is used.

### IP and Network

All GeoIP2 databases and web services provide the network of the associated data
record in the database.

GeoIP2 Precision Insights also includes `user_count`, an estimate of the number
of users using the IP address, and the `static_ip_score`, an indicator of how
static or dynamic an IP allocation is.

## JavaScript API Changes

The MaxMind GeoIP2 JavaScript API provides a JavaScript interface to our
[GeoIP2 Precision web service](/geoip/docs/web-services). The API calls the web
service to retrieve the location information of the user as a
[JavaScript object](/geoip/docs/web-services).

The API is written using the
[JavaScript module pattern](https://www.adequatelygood.com/JavaScript-Module-Pattern-In-Depth.html).
Rather than injecting many global functions into the top-level execution scope,
it returns a single object containing multiple functions you can call.

## Web Service Changes

Our GeoIP2 web services now follow REST principles.

Unlike the GeoIP Legacy web service, the GeoIP2 Precision services use HTTP
basic authentication over SSL rather than passing the license key as a query
parameter.

When an error occurs, we now return an appropriate HTTP error code instead of
simply returning a 200 with an error in the document. We also return a JSON
document with details about the error in most cases.

Successful responses also return a JSON document. All documents, both successful
and error, are in the form of a JSON object.

## Database Changes

Downloadable databases for GeoIP2 use our new
[MaxMind DB](https://maxmind.github.io/MaxMind-DB/) format. Our
[GeoIP2 downloadable databases page](/geoip/docs/databases) has information on
how to use the new format.

## Web Service Example

This is an example of our GeoIP2 Precision: Insights web service's return
document.

```json
{
  "city": {
    "confidence": 25,
    "geoname_id": 54321,
    "names": {
      "de": "Los Angeles",
      "en": "Los Angeles",
      "es": "Los Ángeles",
      "fr": "Los Angeles",
      "ja": "ロサンゼルス市",
      "pt-BR": "Los Angeles",
      "ru": "Лос-Анджелес",
      "zh-CN": "洛杉矶"
    }
  },
  "continent": {
    "code": "NA",
    "geoname_id": 123456,
    "names": {
      "de": "Nordamerika",
      "en": "North America",
      "es": "América del Norte",
      "fr": "Amérique du Nord",
      "ja": "北アメリカ",
      "pt-BR": "América do Norte",
      "ru": "Северная Америка",
      "zh-CN": "北美洲"
    }
  },
  "country": {
    "confidence": 75,
    "geoname_id": 6252001,
    "is_in_european_union": true,
    "iso_code": "US",
    "names": {
      "de": "USA",
      "en": "United States",
      "es": "Estados Unidos",
      "fr": "États-Unis",
      "ja": "アメリカ合衆国",
      "pt-BR": "Estados Unidos",
      "ru": "США",
      "zh-CN": "美国"
    }
  },
  "location": {
    "accuracy_radius": 20,
    "average_income": 128321,
    "latitude": 37.6293,
    "longitude": -122.1163,
    "metro_code": 807,
    "population_density": 7122,
    "time_zone": "America/Los_Angeles"
  },
  "postal": {
    "code": "90001",
    "confidence": 10
  },
  "registered_country": {
    "geoname_id": 6252001,
    "is_in_european_union": true,
    "iso_code": "US",
    "names": {
      "de": "USA",
      "en": "United States",
      "es": "Estados Unidos",
      "fr": "États-Unis",
      "ja": "アメリカ合衆国",
      "pt-BR": "Estados Unidos",
      "ru": "США",
      "zh-CN": "美国"
    }
  },
  "represented_country": {
    "geoname_id": 6252001,
    "is_in_european_union": true,
    "iso_code": "US",
    "names": {
      "de": "USA",
      "en": "United States",
      "es": "Estados Unidos",
      "fr": "États-Unis",
      "ja": "アメリカ合衆国",
      "pt-BR": "Estados Unidos",
      "ru": "США",
      "zh-CN": "美国"
    },
    "type": "military"
  },
  "subdivisions": [
    {
      "confidence": 50,
      "geoname_id": 5332921,
      "iso_code": "CA",
      "names": {
        "de": "Kalifornien",
        "en": "California",
        "es": "California",
        "fr": "Californie",
        "ja": "カリフォルニア",
        "ru": "Калифорния",
        "zh-CN": "加州"
      }
    }
  ],
  "traits": {
    "autonomous_system_number": 1239,
    "autonomous_system_organization": "Linkem IR WiMax Network",
    "domain": "example.com",
    "is_anonymous": true,
    "is_anonymous_proxy": true,
    "is_anonymous_vpn": true,
    "is_hosting_provider": true,
    "is_public_proxy": true,
    "is_satellite_provider": true,
    "is_tor_exit_node": true,
    "is_residential_proxy": true,
    "isp": "Linkem spa",
    "ip_address": "1.2.3.4",
    "network": "1.2.3.0/24",
    "organization": "Linkem IR WiMax Network",
    "static_ip_score": 1.5,
    "user_count": 1,
    "user_type": "traveler"
  },
  "maxmind": {
    "queries_remaining": 54321
  }
}
```

_Latitude and longitude are not precise and should not be used to identify a
particular street address or household. To better represent a level of accuracy,
please include the accuracy_radius when displaying latitude and longitude and
make it clear that the coordinates refer to a larger geographical area instead
of a precise location._
